README.md, before:

# A web stack designed for developer happiness

The following document describes the Fable + Suave sample project. You can see it running on azure at http://fable-suave.azurewebsites.net.

## Requirements

- [Mono](http://www.mono-project.com/) on MacOS/Linux (on Windows .NET Framework is installed by default)
- [node.js](https://nodejs.org/) - JavaScript runtime
- [yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/) - Package manager for npm modules

> On OS X/macOS, make sure you have OpenSSL installed and symlinked correctly, as described here: [https://www.microsoft.com/net/core#macos](https://www.microsoft.com/net/core#macos).

[dotnet SDK 1.0.4](https://www.microsoft.com/net/core) is required but it'll be downloaded automatically by the build script if not installed (see below). Other tools like Paket or FAKE will also be installed by the build script.

## Development mode

This development stack is designed to be used with minimal tooling. An instance of Visual Studio Code together with the excellent [Ionide](http://ionide.io/) plugin should be enough.

Start the development mode with:

    > build.cmd run // on windows
    $ ./build.sh run // on unix

This command will call in **build.fsx** the target "Run". It will start in parallel:
- **dotnet watch run** in [src/Server](src/Server/Server) (note: Suave is launched on port **8085**)
- **dotnet fable webpack-dev-server** in [src/Client](src/Client) (note: the Webpack development server will serve files on http://localhost:8080)

Previously, the build script should download all dependencies like .NET Core SDK, Fable... If you have problems with the download of the .NET Core SDK via the `build.cmd` or `build.sh` script, please install the SDK manually from [here](https://github.com/dotnet/core/blob/master/release-notes/download-archives/1.0.4-download.md). Verify
that you have at least SDK version 1.0.4 installed (`dotnet --version`) and then rerun the build script.

You can now edit files in `src/Server` or `src/Client` and recompile + browser refresh will be triggered automatically.

![Development mode](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/57396/23174149/af93da32-f85b-11e6-8de2-01c274f54a27.gif)

Usually you can just keep this mode running and running. Just edit files, see the browser refreshing and commit + push with git.

## Technology stack

### Suave on .NET Core

The webserver backend is running as a [Suave.io](https://suave.io/) service on .NET Core.

In development mode the server is automatically restarted whenever a file in `src/Server` is saved.

### React/Elmish client

The client is [React](https://facebook.github.io/react/) single page application that uses [fable-elmish](https://github.com/fable-compiler/fable-elmish) to provide a scaffold for the code.

The communication to the server is done via HTTPS calls to `/api/*`. If a user is logged in then a [JSON Web Token](https://jwt.io/) is sent to the server with every request.

### Fable

The [Fable](http://fable.io/) compiler is used to compile the F# client code to JavaScript so that it can run in the browser.

### Shared code between server and client

"Isomorphic F#" started a bit as a joke about [Isomorphic JavaScript](http://isomorphic.net/). The naming is really bad, but the idea to have the same code running on client and server is really interesting.
If you look at `src/Server/Shared/Domain.fs` then you will see code that is shared between client and server. On the server it is compiled to .NET core and for the client the Fable compiler is translating it into JavaScript.
This is a really convenient technique for a shared domain model.

## Testing

Start the full build (incl. UI tests) with:

    > build.cmd // on windows
    $ ./build.sh // on unix

### Expecto

[Expecto](https://github.com/haf/expecto) is a test framework like NUnit or xUnit, but much more developer friendly. With Expecto you write tests as values in normal code.
Tests can be composed, reduced, filtered, repeated and passed as values, because they are values. This gives the programmer a lot of leverage when writing tests.

If you are in [development mode](#development-mode) then you can use Expecto's focused test feature to run a selected test against the running server.

### Canopy

[canopy](https://github.com/lefthandedgoat/canopy) is a F# web automation and testing library, built on top of Selenium. In our expecto suite it looks like the following:

        testCase "login with test user" <| fun () ->
            url serverUrl
            waitForElement ".elmish-app"

            click "Login"

            "#username" << "test"
            "#password" << "test"

            click "Log In"

            waitForElement "Isaac Abraham"

![Canopy in action](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/57396/23131425/38d06e8c-f78a-11e6-9ebc-8442b0abf752.gif)

## Additional tools

### FAKE

[FAKE](http://fsharp.github.io/FAKE/) is a build automation system with capabilities which are similar to make and rake. It's used to automate the build, test and deployment process. Look into `build.fsx` for details.

### Paket

[Paket](https://fsprojects.github.io/Paket/) is a dependency manager and allows easier management of the NuGet packages.

## Maintainer(s)

- [@forki](https://github.com/forki)
- [@alfonsogarciacaro](https://github.com/alfonsogarciacaro)

Commit message:

packages added. authentication not working

README.md, after:

#Chapter 0

Basic set up based on [scaffold project branch fable-remoting](https://github.com/fable-compiler/fable-suave-scaffold/tree/fable-remoting) .

**Readme* file is copied as it is as belowed. There are few more project added which are very much specific to this project.


# A web stack designed for developer happiness

The following document describes the Fable + Suave sample project. You can see it running on azure at http://fable-suave.azurewebsites.net.

## Requirements

- [Mono](http://www.mono-project.com/) on MacOS/Linux (on Windows .NET Framework is installed by default)
- [node.js](https://nodejs.org/) - JavaScript runtime
- [yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/) - Package manager for npm modules

> On OS X/macOS, make sure you have OpenSSL installed and symlinked correctly, as described here: [https://www.microsoft.com/net/core#macos](https://www.microsoft.com/net/core#macos).

[dotnet SDK 1.0.4](https://www.microsoft.com/net/core) is required but it'll be downloaded automatically by the build script if not installed (see below). Other tools like Paket or FAKE will also be installed by the build script.

## Development mode

This development stack is designed to be used with minimal tooling. An instance of Visual Studio Code together with the excellent [Ionide](http://ionide.io/) plugin should be enough.

Start the development mode with:

    > build.cmd run // on windows
    $ ./build.sh run // on unix

This command will call in **build.fsx** the target "Run". It will start in parallel:
- **dotnet watch run** in [src/Server](src/Server/Server) (note: Suave is launched on port **8085**)
- **dotnet fable webpack-dev-server** in [src/Client](src/Client) (note: the Webpack development server will serve files on http://localhost:8080)

Previously, the build script should download all dependencies like .NET Core SDK, Fable... If you have problems with the download of the .NET Core SDK via the `build.cmd` or `build.sh` script, please install the SDK manually from [here](https://github.com/dotnet/core/blob/master/release-notes/download-archives/1.0.4-download.md). Verify
that you have at least SDK version 1.0.4 installed (`dotnet --version`) and then rerun the build script.

You can now edit files in `src/Server` or `src/Client` and recompile + browser refresh will be triggered automatically.

![Development mode](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/57396/23174149/af93da32-f85b-11e6-8de2-01c274f54a27.gif)

Usually you can just keep this mode running and running. Just edit files, see the browser refreshing and commit + push with git.

## Technology stack

### Suave on .NET Core

The webserver backend is running as a [Suave.io](https://suave.io/) service on .NET Core.

In development mode the server is automatically restarted whenever a file in `src/Server` is saved.

### React/Elmish client

The client is [React](https://facebook.github.io/react/) single page application that uses [fable-elmish](https://github.com/fable-compiler/fable-elmish) to provide a scaffold for the code.

The communication to the server is done via HTTPS calls to `/api/*`. If a user is logged in then a [JSON Web Token](https://jwt.io/) is sent to the server with every request.

### Fable

The [Fable](http://fable.io/) compiler is used to compile the F# client code to JavaScript so that it can run in the browser.

### Shared code between server and client

"Isomorphic F#" started a bit as a joke about [Isomorphic JavaScript](http://isomorphic.net/). The naming is really bad, but the idea to have the same code running on client and server is really interesting.
If you look at `src/Server/Shared/Domain.fs` then you will see code that is shared between client and server. On the server it is compiled to .NET core and for the client the Fable compiler is translating it into JavaScript.
This is a really convenient technique for a shared domain model.

## Testing

Start the full build (incl. UI tests) with:

    > build.cmd // on windows
    $ ./build.sh // on unix

### Expecto

[Expecto](https://github.com/haf/expecto) is a test framework like NUnit or xUnit, but much more developer friendly. With Expecto you write tests as values in normal code.
Tests can be composed, reduced, filtered, repeated and passed as values, because they are values. This gives the programmer a lot of leverage when writing tests.

If you are in [development mode](#development-mode) then you can use Expecto's focused test feature to run a selected test against the running server.

### Canopy

[canopy](https://github.com/lefthandedgoat/canopy) is a F# web automation and testing library, built on top of Selenium. In our expecto suite it looks like the following:

        testCase "login with test user" <| fun () ->
            url serverUrl
            waitForElement ".elmish-app"

            click "Login"

            "#username" << "test"
            "#password" << "test"

            click "Log In"

            waitForElement "Isaac Abraham"

![Canopy in action](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/57396/23131425/38d06e8c-f78a-11e6-9ebc-8442b0abf752.gif)

## Additional tools

### FAKE

[FAKE](http://fsharp.github.io/FAKE/) is a build automation system with capabilities which are similar to make and rake. It's used to automate the build, test and deployment process. Look into `build.fsx` for details.

### Paket

[Paket](https://fsprojects.github.io/Paket/) is a dependency manager and allows easier management of the NuGet packages.

## Maintainer(s)

- [@forki](https://github.com/forki)
- [@alfonsogarciacaro](https://github.com/alfonsogarciacaro)
